CHAPTER 3 : Digital Logic Structures

3.1 The Transistor
    Metal Oxide Semiconductor (MOS), circuits with both n & p type are called Complimentary MOS
    p-type and n-type
    P-type transistors work the opposite of type n
    n --> open = off, 0 / p --> open = on, 1

3.2 Logic Gates
    Construct basic logc structures out of individual MOS transistors
    AND, OR, NOT ...
    3.2.1 The NOT Gate (Inverter)
        constructed from 2 MOS transistors, one p-type one n-type
    3.2.2 OR and NOR Gates
        two p-type, two n-type transistors
        n-type transistors act as open circuits
        see hand written notes..
    3.2.3 AND and NAND Gates
        see hand written notes..
    3.2.4 DeMorgan's Law
        not (A or B) = (not A) and (not B)
        not (A and B) = (not A) or (not B)

3.3 Combinational Logic Circuits
    Their outputs are not at all dependent on any past history of information that is stored internally,
    since no information can be stored internally in a combinational logic circuit.
    3.3.1 Decoder
        decoders have n inputs and 2^n outputs
        The decoder is useful in determining how to interpret a bit pattern
    3.3.2 Mux
        The function of a mux is to select one of the inputs and connect it to the output
        2^n inputs and n select lines
        see notes..
    3.3.3 Full Adder
        central to most digital circuits that perform addition or subtraction.
        it adds together two binary digits, plus a carry-in digit to produce a
        sum and carry-out digit. 1. It therefore has three inputs and two outputs.
    3.3.4 The Programmable Logic Array (PLA)
        an array of AND gates followed by an array of OR gates.
        number of AND gates corresponds to the number of input combinations (rows) in the truth table
        For n input logic functions, we need a PLA with 2^n n-input AND gates
        The number of OR gates corresponds to the number of output columns in the truth table

3.4 Basic Storage Elements
    logic structures that store information
    3.4.1 The R-S Latch
        can store one bit of info




